---
layout: post
title: SNES Mini Hakchi RetroArch
date: 2023-09-24 10:30 +0200
categories: [Emulation, open source]
tags: [Hakchi, RetroArch, SNES Mini, Emulation, open source]
---
# SNES Mini: Installing Hakchi and RetroArch

 ðŸŽ®ðŸ•¹ï¸ðŸ‘¾

Here are some notes on how to install Hakchi and RetroArch on your SNES Mini. 

**Hakchi**:
Hakchi is a custom firmware that allows you to add more games to your SNES Mini, including titles that were not originally included. It also provides an easy-to-use interface for managing your game library, and it's a must-have tool for expanding your SNES Mini's capabilities.

**RetroArch**:
RetroArch is a powerful, open-source emulator that supports various gaming platforms and consoles. Installing RetroArch on your SNES Mini enables you to play games from multiple systems, including NES, Sega Genesis, PlayStation, and more. It provides enhanced features like save states, cheats, and shaders to improve your gaming experience.

Here is a step-by-step guide on how to install using windows:

## Basic Installation
1. Visit the Hakchi2 CE GitHub page (https://github.com/TeamShinkansen/hakchi2/releases) and download the latest release of Hakchi2 CE for Windows. Extract and run the downloaded ZIP file.
2. First time, you will need to install custom kernel (Firmware) on the SNES Mini. Click on "Kernel" in the menu and select "Install / Repair." Follow the on-screen instructions to flash the custom kernel to your SNES Mini. Make sure to use a USB with data transfer capabilities. If it fails, try a different USB port. Check if Hakchi2 has the rights to access the USB port/network. The SNES Mini will reboot when the installation is complete.
3. Click on the "Add More Games" button in Hakchi2 CE. Browse for your game ROMs and select the ones you want to add. (Supported formats: .sfc, .smc, .fig, .swc, .mgd, .zip, .7z, .rar)
4. Click "Synchronize" to transfer the games to your SNES Mini.

## Extra Installation
1. In Hakchi2 CE, go to "Modules" > "KMFD's Mod Hub" > "KMFD's RetroArch". Select the latest version of RetroArch and click "Download and Install Module.". Click "OK" to confirm the installation and click "Synchronize" to transfer the module to your SNES Mini.
2. In Hakchi2 CE, go to "Settings" in the menu. Click on the "Pages/folders structure" tab. Click on the "Show advanced settings" button. Click on the "RetroArch" tab. Click on the "Install / Repair" button. Click "OK" to confirm the installation. Click "Synchronize" to transfer the module to your SNES Mini.
3. Download CloverApp-ForNESClassic-master.zip from the RetroArch GitHub page (https://github.com/ClusterM/retroarch-clover/releases). Add the downloaded ZIP file to your Hakchi2 CE games library just like any other game. Click "Synchronize" to transfer the module to your SNES Mini.

## Usage
The CloverApp allows you to launch RetroArch from the SNES Mini's main menu. You can change things like video output/aspect ratio and all sorts of settings.. You can also launch RetroArch from the SNES Mini's main menu by pressing the "Select" and "Start" buttons at the same time. Apparently "Select" and "Start" buttons at the same time is the default shortcut for launching RetroArch (but didn't work for me). You can change the shortcut in RetroArch's settings.

## Next Steps
- Use an external USB drive to store your games and save states. This will allow you to store more games and save states on your SNES Mini.
- Install additional cores for RetroArch to play games from other systems. (e.g. NES, Sega Genesis, PlayStation, etc.)
- Install additional modules for Hakchi2 CE to add more features to your SNES Mini. (e.g. RetroArch Xtreme, RetroArch Neo, etc.)

## Final Thoughts
This "hack" is great to take your SNES Mini to the next level. It's easy to install and use, and it provides a lot of extra features. Great for a Stand-alone Retro Gaming Console. The only problem I has was to not be able to use it it a 1280 x 1024 monitor. Even with Retroarch and all settings it was not possible to get the right aspect ratio. Using a 1920 x 1080 monitor might be the solution, or just install Retroarch on a PC and use it from there.